#530: Translated japanese documents to english (#562)
kmyk/online-judge-tools: docs/introduction.en.rst

Introduction to online-judge-tools (English)
=============================================

online-judge-tools is a tool for automating typical tasks that exist in competitive programming.

Install
------------

If Python is installed, you can install it with just the following command.

.. code-block:: console

   $ pip3 install --user online-judge-tools

Linux or Mac OS is recommended for the OS, but it also works on Windows.

Sample case test
----------------------

Do you test with sample cases before submission?
Have you ever been troublesome and omitted?
You should always test before submitting, since submitting an implementation that doesn't even fit the sample will only incur a penalty.
It is also useful for debugging, and you should try the sample case every time you rewrite your program.

However, "open the problem page, copy the sample input, run the program and paste it there, and compare the output result with the sample output" for the number of sample cases, it is quite troublesome to do this each time is.

> Doing the tedious work manually is easy and easy to omit or mistake.

Reviewer: I feel uncomfortable with that translation.
We want to say that  "manual work is easy to omit or mistake, so it is not good".

How about `Doing the tedious work manually is easy to omit or mistake.`?

Author: Okay

> Doing the tedious work manually is easy and easy to omit or mistake.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Doing the tedious work manually is easy to omit or mistake.
```

This problem can be solved by automation.

> Use online-judge-tools to automate sample case testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By online-judge-tools, you can automate sample case testing.
```

.. code-block:: console

   $ oj d https://atcoder.jp/contests/agc001/tasks/agc001_a
   [x] problem recognized: AtCoderProblem.from_url('https://atcoder.jp/contests/agc001/tasks/agc001_a')
   [x] load cookie from: /home/ubuntu/.local/share/online-judge-tools/cookie.jar
   [x] GET: https://atcoder.jp/contests/agc001/tasks/agc001_a
   [x] 200 OK
   [x] save cookie to: /home/ubuntu/.local/share/online-judge-tools/cookie.jar
   [x] append history to: /home/ubuntu/.cache/online-judge-tools/download-history.jsonl

   [*] sample 0
   [x] input: Input example 1
   2
   1 3 1 2
   [+] saved to: test/sample-1.in
   [x] output: Input example 1
   3
   [+] saved to: test/sample-1.out

   [*] sample 1
   [x] input: Input example 2
   5
   100 1 2 3 14 15 58 58 58 29
   [+] saved to: test/sample-2.in
   [x] output: Sample output 2
   135
   [+] saved to: test/sample-2.out

   $ g++ main.cpp

   $ oj t
   [*] 2 cases found

   [*] sample-1
   [x] time: 0.003978 sec
   [+] AC

   [*] sample-2
   [x] time: 0.004634 sec
   [-] WA
   output:
   3

   expected:
   135

   [x] slowest: 0.004634 sec  (for sample-2)
   [x] max memory: 2.344000 MB  (for sample-1)
   [-] test failed: 1 AC / 2 cases

> The basic function of ``oj t`` is to prepare files such as ``test / sample-1.in``, ``test / sample-1.out`` and then ``for f in test/*.in ; do diff <(./a.out < $f) ${f/.in/.out} ; done`` is almost equivalent to running.

Reviewer: Spacing is broken.
```suggestion
The basic function of ``oj t`` is to prepare files such as ``test/sample-1.in``, ``test/sample-1.out`` and then ``for f in test/*.in ; do diff <(./a.out < $f) ${f/.in/.out} ; done`` is almost equivalent to running.
```

> The basic function of ``oj t`` is to prepare files such as ``test/sample-1.in``, ``test/sample-1.out`` and then ``for f in test/*.in ; do diff <(./a.out < $f) ${f/.in/.out} ; done`` is almost equivalent to running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The basic function of ``oj t`` is almost equivalent to prepare files such as ``test/sample-1.in``, ``test/sample-1.out`` and then to run ``for f in test/*.in ; do diff <(./a.out < $f) ${f/.in/.out} ; done``.
```

If you want to test against commands other than ``./a.out`` (e.g. ``python3 main.py``), use the ``-c`` option (e.g. ``oj t -c "python3 main.py"``).
Use the ``--system`` option if you want to get test cases that are used for system tests instead of samples.
Run ``oj d --help`` or ``oj t --help`` to see other features.

Submit
----

> When submitting the implemented solution, it is common to select "Problem to be submitted to the program" and "Implement language of the program to be submitted" with the mouse, copy and paste the source code into the text box and press the send button It is.

Reviewer: How about 
```suggestion
When submitting your implemented solution, you have to select "Problem to be submitted to the program" and "Implement language of the program to be submitted" with the mouse, copy and paste the source code into the text box, and press the send button. This series of operations is troublesome.
```

> By the way, have you ever experienced a penalty when you made a mistake in selecting the “submission issue” and “submission language” at the time of submission?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Have you ever experienced a penalty when you made a mistake in selecting the “submission issue” and “submission language” at the time of submission?
```
I think "By the way, " is not need.

If you have any such experience, we recommend automating the submission.

> Use online-judge-tools to automate submissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By online-judge-tools, you can automate submissions.
```

   589 590
   34 100
   689 635
   781 361
   
   [+] saved to: test/random-099.in

   $ cat tle.cpp
   #include <bits/stdc++.h>
   #define REP(i, n) for (int i = 0; (i) < (int)(n); ++ (i))
   using namespace std;
   
   int main() {
       // input
       int N, W; cin >> N >> W;
       vector<int> v(N), w(N);
       REP (i, N) {
           cin >> v[i] >> w[i];
       }
   
       // solve
       int answer = 0;
       REP (x, 1 << N) {
           int sum_v = 0;
           int sum_w = 0;
           REP (i, N) if (x & (1 << i)) {
               sum_v += v[i];
               sum_w += w[i];
           }
           if (sum_w <= W) {
               answer = max(answer, sum_v);
           }
       }
   
       // output
       cout << answer << endl;
       return 0;
   }

   $ g++ tle.cpp -o tle

   $ oj g/o -c ./tle
   [*] 102 cases found
   
   [*] random-000
   [x] time: 0.003198 sec
   505
   
   [+] saved to: test/random-000.out
   
   ...
   
   [*] random-099
   [x] time: 0.005680 sec
   3722
   
   [+] saved to: test/random-099.out
   
   [*] sample-1
   [*] output file already exists.
   [*] skipped.
   
   [*] sample-2
   [*] output file already exists.
   [*] skipped.

> The basic function of ``oj g/i ./generate.py`` is ``for i in $(seq 100) ; do ./generate.py > test/random-$i.in ;`` It is almost equivalent, and the basic function of ``oj g/o`` is ``for i in test/*.in ; do ./a.out < $f > ${f/.in/.out} ; done``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The basic function of ``oj g/i ./generate.py`` is almost equivalent to ``for i in $(seq 100) ; do ./generate.py > test/random-$i.in ;``. And the basic function of ``oj g/o`` is almost equivalent to ``for i in test/*.in ; do ./a.out < $f > ${f/.in/.out} ; done``.
```

> There are also more efficient options such as ``--hack`` and parallelization option ``-j``, etc., for cases where it is difficult to find a shooting case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are also more efficient options such as ``--hack`` and parallelization option ``-j``, etc., for cases where it is difficult to find a failure testcase.
```
But I'm not confident in this sentence.

Test for special forms of problem
------------------------------

-   Error judge

>     Tests for problems such as “Absolute or relative error is within 10⁻⁶ as correct answer” can be handled with the ``-e`` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Tests for problems such as “Absolute or relative error within 10⁻⁶ as correct answer” can be handled with the ``-e`` option.
```

    For example, ``oj t -e 1e-6``.

-   Problems with multiple solutions

>     It does not correspond directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    It is not supported directly.
```

    Please do `assert <https://cpprefjp.github.io/reference/cassert/assert.html>`_ in the implemented program.

    For example, if the problem is https://atcoder.jp/contests/agc022/tasks/agc022_b, you can test by implementing ``oj t``    in the following form.

    .. code-block:: c++

      #include <bits/stdc++.h>
      #define REP(i, n) for (int i = 0; (i) < (int)(n); ++ (i))
      #define ALL(x) begin(x), end(x)
      using namespace std;
      
      vector<int> solve(int n) {
          ...
      }
      
      int main() {
          int n; cin >> n;
          vector<int> s = solve(n);
          REP (i, s.size()) {
              if (i) cout << ' ';
              cout << s[i];
          }
          cout << endl;
      
          // check
          int sum_s = accumulate(ALL(s), 0);
          REP (i, n) {
              assert (1 <= s[i] and s[i] <= 30000);
              assert (gcd(s[i], sum_s - s[i]) != 1);
          }
          assert (set<int>(ALL(s)).size() == s.size());
          assert (accumulate(ALL(s), 0, [&](int a, int b) { return gcd(a, b); }) == 1);
          return 0;
      }

> -   Reactive issue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Reactive problem
```

Since we use "problem" in other location.

    There is a problem submitting a program that works interactively with the judge program.
    The command ``oj t/r`` is provided to test this.

    For example, if the problem is https://codeforces.com/gym/101021/problem/A, write the following program on the judge         side and save it as ``judge.py``  and ``oj t/r ./judge.py`` will run the test.

    .. code-block:: python

      #!/usr/bin/env python3
      import sys
      import random
      n = random.randint(1, 10 ** 6)
      print('[*] n =', n, file=sys.stderr)
      for i in range(25 + 1):
          s = input()
          if s.startswith('!'):
              x = int(s.split()[1])
              assert x == n
              exit()
          else:
              print('<' if n < int(s) else '>=')
              sys.stdout.flush()
      assert False

List of supported services
--------------------------

For services that communicate with online judge servers, the services available may be limited.

> Correspondence service as of ``v7.2.0`` (2019-09-27) is as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Supported service as of ``v7.2.0`` (2019-09-27) is as follows.
```

Download sample (``oj d``):

-  `Aizu Online Judge (Arena) <https://onlinejudge.u-aizu.ac.jp/services/arena.html>`_
-  `Aizu Online Judge <https://onlinejudge.u-aizu.ac.jp/home>`_
-  `Anarchy Golf <http://golf.shinh.org/>`_
-  `AtCoder <https://atcoder.jp/>`_
-  `Codeforces <https://codeforces.com/>`_
-  `CS Academy <https://csacademy.com/>`_
-  `Facebook Hacker Cup <https://www.facebook.com/hackercup/>`_
-  `HackerRank <https://www.hackerrank.com/>`_
-  `Kattis <https://open.kattis.com/>`_
-  `PKU JudgeOnline <http://poj.org/>`_
-  `Toph (Problem Archive) <https://toph.co/>`_
-  `yukicoder <https://yukicoder.me/>`_
-  `Library Checker <https://judge.yosupo.jp>`_

Login (``oj login``):

-  All services (when using Selenium)
-  AtCoder (direct password input)
-  Codeforces (direct password input)

Submit (``oj s``)

-  AtCoder
-  Codeforces
-  Topcoder (Marathon Match)
-  yukicoder
-  HackerRank
-  Toph (Problem Archive)

Download system case (``oj d --system``):

-  Aizu Online Judge
-  yukicoder

Missing features
--------------

> To explain what it is, you need to say what you can do, but that is not enough.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To explain what online-judge-tools is, we need to say what we can do, but that is not enough.
```

> You should also say "what you can't do".

Reviewer: We should also say "what we can't do".

online-judge-tools does not have the following features:

-  Ability to prepare a directory corresponding to the contest

   online-judge-tools is a tool for “helping to solve individual problems”, otherwise it is out of responsibility.
   There is a function to support this internally (`onlinejudge.type.Contest.list_problems <https://online-judge-tools.readthedocs.io/en/master/onlinejudge.type.html#onlinejudge. type.Contest.list_problems>`_), so if necessary, write your own script. You can also use existing wrappers (such as `Tatamo / atcoder-cli <https://github.com/Tatamo/atcoder-cli>`_).

>    For the same reason, for example, there is no "function to manage the progress of vocation".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For the same reason, for example, there is no function to manage the progress of training.
```

-  Ability to generate templates

Template generation is a general programming issue and is not the responsibility of online-judge-tools.
For example, in Vim, it can be supported more generically with plug-ins such as `thinca / vim-template <https://github.com/thinca/vim-template/blob/master/doc/template.jax>`_.

For example, “the ability to automatically diagnose source code and search for potential bugs” does not exist for the same reason as “it exists as a more general tool”.

-  Ability to compile automatically

It is enough to use shell functions.

> In addition, there are an infinite number of compiling methods as many as the number of languages ​​and environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, there are too many compiling methods as many as the number of languages ​​and environments.
```

If you want to recompile before testing, use something like ``g++ main.cpp && oj t``.

-  Function to automatically generate code for the part that receives input

Although it existed in the past, it was deleted by leaving it to `kyuridenamida / atcoder-tools <https://github.com/kyuridenamida/atcoder-tools>`_. Please use that.

-  Ability to make submission reservations

Since it is sufficient to use the shell functions, there is no option to do so.
For example, to submit after 1 hour, use ``sleep 3600 && oj s --yes main.cpp``.

-  Ability to analyze submission results

> do not exist. If you do too much, you can expect problems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
do not exist. If we do too much, we can have trouble to maintain library.
```
